README.md, before:

# Twick Monorepo

This repository contains a collection of packages for video and image manipulation, built with modern web technologies.

## Packages

- **@twick/media-utils**: Core utilities for media handling and manipulation
- **@twick/canvas**: React-based canvas library for video and image editing

## Getting Started

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/ncounterspecialist/twick.git
cd twick
```

2. Install dependencies:
```bash
npm install
```

3. Build all packages:
```bash
npm run build
```

4. Start development:
```bash
npm run dev
```

## Development

Each package can be developed independently:

```bash
# Build a specific package
npm run build --workspace=@twick/canvas

# Start development mode for a package
npm run dev --workspace=@twick/canvas
```

## 🛡 License

This project is licensed under the **Apache 2.0 License with additional terms**.

- ✅ Free for use in commercial and non-commercial apps
- ✅ Can be modified and self-hosted
- ❌ Cannot be sold, rebranded, or distributed as a standalone SDK or developer tool
- ❌ Cannot be used to offer hosted cloud functions as a paid service

👉 For resale, or SaaS redistribution please [contact us](mailto:contact@kifferai.com).

Commit message:

Updated README with demo link

README.md, after:

# Twick Monorepo

This repository contains a collection of packages for video and image manipulation, built with modern web technologies.

## Packages

- **@twick/media-utils**: Core utilities for media handling and manipulation
- **@twick/canvas**: React-based canvas library for video and image editing

## Getting Started

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/ncounterspecialist/twick.git
cd twick
```

2. Install dependencies:
```bash
npm install
```

3. Build all packages:
```bash
npm run build
```

4. Start development:
```bash
npm run dev
```

## Development

Each package can be developed independently:

```bash
# Build a specific package
npm run build --workspace=@twick/canvas

# Start development mode for a package
npm run dev --workspace=@twick/canvas
```

## Demo Preview

Here’s a glimpse of building a video using the SDK:

[Watch it in action](https://youtu.be/xuocqJqc9m8?si=c6TThWJH03zYvkM5)

## 🛡 License

This project is licensed under the **Apache 2.0 License with additional terms**.

- ✅ Free for use in commercial and non-commercial apps
- ✅ Can be modified and self-hosted
- ❌ Cannot be sold, rebranded, or distributed as a standalone SDK or developer tool
- ❌ Cannot be used to offer hosted cloud functions as a paid service

👉 For resale, or SaaS redistribution please [contact us](mailto:contact@kifferai.com).
